.TH watchtv "1" "2015 July 10" "GNU2"
.SH NAME
watchtv \- watch and record online HDTV streams
.SH SYNOPSYS
.B watchtv
[
.B --record
]
.br
.B watchtv
[
.B --help
|
.B --list
|
.B --version
]
.br
.B watchtv
[ options ]
.B --record --channel
.I CHANNEL
[
.B --endtime 
.I TIME 
|
.B --duration
.I SECONDS
[
.B --starttime
.I TIME 
]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B watchtv
plays and records live HDTV streams.
.PP
When launched without any options, 
.B watchtv
goes into interactive mode and presents a list of available channels.
.PP
When launched for the first time, 
.B watchtv
wants to create a configuration file in $HOME/.watchtvrc.
.br
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
.IP "\fB\-c, \-\-channel CHANNEL"
Specify the channel to be played or recorded. Without any other options
.B watchtv
will immediately start (or record) the specified channel.
.br
Use the option
.I --list
to get a list of available channels.
.IP "\fB\-\-delete-cron CHANNEL TIME"
Delete a previously scheduled job from crontab. To match exactly a 
specific job you need to specify the CHANNEL and its start time TIME.
.IP "\fB\-h, \-\-help"
Print a summary of available options and exit.
.IP "\fB\-l, \-\-list"
Print a list of available channels and exit. 
.IP "\fB\-q, \-\-quiet"
Try to suppress any output to stderr and also do not ask for confirmation.
.IP "\fB\-v, \-\-version"
Print the version of this software and exit. 
.SH OPTIONS FOR RECORDING
Those options can only be used in recording mode, which is set with the
.I --record
option.
In recording mode,
.B watchtv
writes the received stream to a local file. The name of the resulting 
file is composed of the channel name and the current date and time, following
this template:
.PP
\fBCHANNEL\fR-\fBYYYYMMDDhhmm\fR.mkv
.PP
The format is matroska (.mkv), containing a H.264 video and an AAC encoded
audio stream. The video resolution usually is 1280x720px.
.IP "\fB\-e, \-\-endtime TIME"
Schedule the end time of the recording. If used without the
.I --starttime
option, recording starts immediately and stops at specified time.
.br
Accepts
anything that is understood by the
.B date
command. Check 
.BR date (1)
for more details. 
.IP "\fB\-d, \-\-duration SECONDS"
Specify the duration of the recording. The recording starts immediately
and ends after SECONDS seconds.
.IP "\fB\-n, \-\-showname NAME"
Specify a filename prefix that is used instead of the channel name.
.IP "\fB\-p, \-\-path DIRECTORY"
Specify directory where recorded shows are saved. The 
default is the current directory.
.IP "\fB\-r, \-\-record"
Record a stream instead of watching it.
.IP "\fB\-t, \-\-starttime TIME"
Schedule the start time for a recording. Using this option doesn't start a
recording directly, but writes an appropriate entry to the current user's
crontab file. This entry is automatically removed as soon as the recording
has started.
.br
Accepts
anything that is understood by the
.B date
command. Check 
.BR date (1)
for more details. 
.br
.I NOTE:
For using this option either one of the options
.I --endtime
or
.I --duration
and the option 
.I --channel
are mandatory.
.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
If it exists, 
.B watchtv
will read parameters from its configuration file, which is located
in $HOME/.watchtvrc. Those parameters are overriden by options specified on the
command line.
.PP
.I PARAMETERS:
.RS
RECORDPATH
.RS 
Directory where recordings are saved (overriden by
.I --path
).
.RE
CHANNEL
.RS
Default channel to be used (overriden by
.I --channel
).
.RE
MPVOPTS
.RS
Options passed to mpv. This option applies only to playback mode (when 
.I --record
is not used).
.RE
MPLAYEROPTS
.RS
Options passed to mplayer. This option applies only to playback mode (when 
.I --record
is not used). Either MPVOPTS or MPLAYEROPTS is used, depending on which player is used or available.
.RE
BUFFERSECONDS
.RS
defines how much data is downloaded before playback starts. 
.B watchtv 
will wait to play the stream until 
.I BUFFERSECONDS * BITRATE / 8
bytes have been downloaded. If you often experience premature player exits, it is advised
to increase that value. The default is 2.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.B Schedule a recording using interactive dialogs:
.RS
.PP
watchtv --record
.PP
.RE
.B Schedule a recording:
.RS
.PP
watchtv --record --channel "arte (de) HD" --starttime "20:15" --endtime "22:00"
.PP
.RE
.B Record for an hour from now:
.RS
.PP
watchtv --record --channel "arte (de) HD" --duration 3600
.PP
.RE
.B Record from now until tonight at 23:15:
.RS
.PP
watchtv --record --channel "arte (de) HD" --endtime "23:15"
.PP
.RE
.SH "REPORTING BUGS"
Report bugs and suggestions to jane.doe@openmailbox.org
.SH AUTHOR
Jane Doe <jane.doe@openmailbox.org>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mpv (1),
.BR mplayer (1),
.BR avconv (1),
.BR crontab (1),
.BR date (1)

